Hello friends
In this video let us have an introduction to computers
So what is a computer?
A computer is an electronic device which converts the data into meaningful information.
So what is the difference between data and information ?
see the data is a raw and unstructured fact that may
contain numbers, characters and statements.
But data is useless until it is processed and organized by humans or computers.
And what is information?
When this data is processed by humans or  computers,
it gets structured and organized.
And this kind of meaningful data is called as information.
So let us understand this with an example.
We have the income of each person in a country.
And this is the data.
And it is useless until we process and take meaningful information out of it.
So we can process this data to get the average income of a country
and how the average income rate increases per year.
Now that is an information and it is very useful.
So simply data is a collection of unorganized facts.
And the processed meaningful structured data is called the information.
So as we have discussed the computer transforms data into meaningful information.
It should receive the data as an input
and display useful information as the output.
And to receive the input, the computer needs input unit
and to display the output, the computer needs an output unit.
Together this is called the I/O unit or the input output unit.
And in order to convert this data into meaningful information,
the computer needs to process it.
So the computer needs another unit to process the input.
And this unit is called the processing unit.
But the computer can't directly process the input.
It should store the received input in someplace
and from there, it will take the data and then process it.
So the computer needs another unit to store the data
and it is called the memory unit.
So it needs an I/O unit, a processing unit and a memory unit.
And these are the major sections of a computer
Let us understand how the computer will convert the data into meaningful information.
The input unit will read the data and the data will be stored in memory
and from memory the data will be sent to the processing unit.
After processing the data, the useful information is again stored in memory.
From the memory the useful information will be displayed via the output unit.
So these are the basic components of a computer.
And in the coming videos we will
learn each component of a computer elaborately.